git config --global user.name "mahe0243"
git config --global.email "maheshparella243@gmail.com"
git config list

if already repo created on main branch and has some date, in lap you created new folder 
mkdir welcome
git init
git remote add origin https://github.com/mahe0243/CFT.git
touch abc
git add .
git commit -m "Added abc"
git pull origin main --allow-unrelated-histories
git push origin main

or if you want to create a new branch
git branch -m Mahesh  ->you can follow same

git branch -d mahe          # Deletes local branch
git push origin --delete mahe   # Deletes GitHub branch

Master ->index.html, ReadME
branch1 ->index.html, ReadME
branch2 ->index.html, ReadME

On Branch1:
git checkout branch1
touch welcome.txt
git add . 
git commit -m "welcomefile" 
git push origin branch1

On Branch2:
git checkout branch2
git pull origin branch1
git push origin branch2 -->To push the new changes to GitHub

On GitHub side, --> we can create "Compare & pull request" ->it will go to manager approvals and once he approve & commit merge pull request-->new changes will push to Master bransh
but still git side, we need to do 

git checkout master
git pull origin master  ->now welcomefile has been added to local git as well.

Git Merge Conflict:
Master ->index.html ->this is from master -line-1
branch1 ->index.html ->hi this is branch1 -line-1
branch2

in git local:
git checkout branch1
git merge master or git pull master -->you will see an error called merge conflict

so we need to keep the one line and push it, here i would like keep the master code, so after changes we need to run

git status
git add .
git commit -m "Resolved merge conflict"
git push origin branch1

git merge master -->success



Merging: -
Merge will give us extra commit id, and history is preserved, so you can check the origin of what happened in the branches.
Create a new/another branch
Do the changes in the branch
Raise PR -Pull request
Get the approval
Then merge it
Merge gives us a new merge commit which has 2 parents, we can clearly see the history
Git log –oneline
Git bash-
----
git checkout -b “branch-name”
Made some changes
Git add . 
git commit -m “new changes are added” “branch-name”
git push origin “branch-name”

Git Rebase: -
Change the base 
No extra commit
Commit id are changed (new commit id will create)
No history is preserved; it is rewritten as if it is done in main branch
Looks liner history

Single branch:  Multiple persons are working  prefer merge
If you want to keep the history  prefer merge
Blindly go for merge. If you are not sure

Single branch  single person  prefer to rebase
If you don’t want history  prefer to rebase
If you want clean structure  prefer to rebase

Git log –oneline -
Git cat-file sha-code -p 
How to delete branch -> git checkout -d “branch-name”

Conflicts: -
When we are trying to merge the changes from one branch to another branch
If git finds-out 2 different contents in the same line, it can’t take decision. People who wrote the code should sit together and resolve conflict.
If main branch moves forward and another branch is trying to merge the changes, then conflict will come.







git clone https://github.com/jaiswaladi246/Boardgame.git


